You are welcome to add translation to seafile client in your language.

## Step 1: Translate the basic client

### To create a new translation

For example, if you like to add Russian translation.

- Make sure you can [Build Seafile Client from source](https://github.com/haiwen/seafile/wiki/Build-and-use-seafile-client-from-source)

- Go to the `po/` directory

- Edit the `LINGUAS` file, insert the language code for Russian `ru` (Pay attention to keep the list of language codes in alphabetic order)

```
de_DE
fr
ru
zh_CN
```

- Run `intltool-udpate --pot`, and copy `seafile.pot` to `ru.po`

- Edit the header part of the file `ru.po`. Change the header fileds:
  - Set the value of `Language` to `ru`
  - Set the value of `charset` to `UTF-8`
  
- Translate the entries of `ru.po` one by one

### To update or check an existing translation

For example, you want to update the Russian translation

- Go to the `po/` directory
- Update the translation file by running:

```
intltool-udpate ru
```
- Check and edit `ru.po`. Search for all messages marked **fuzzy**, and remov the word **fuzzy** when they are done.

- Continue running `intltool-update ru` and check that you have 0 fuzzy and 0 untranslated, then you're finished.

## Step 2: Translate the local web interface of Seafile Client

Translating the local web interface involves a bit more work to do. However, you can just finish the following steps and leave the rest work to seafile developers.

Again let's take Russian translation as an example.

- Go to the `web/i18n` directory
- Create a directory  `web/i18n/ru/LC_MESSAGES/`
- Copy an existing translation as a template

```
cp web/i18n/zh_CN/LC_MESSAGES/messages.po web/i18n/ru/LC_MESSAGES/
```
- Edit the `messages.po` entry by entry.

## Step 3: Contribute your translation to Seafile

Fork seafile and send us a pull request, we'll check and handle the rest of the work.
